[DOCU-2496] Kong Enterprise Overview page (#4497)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: src/gateway/kong-enterprise/index.md

content_type: explanation
---

Kong Enterprise is the scalable, secure, and flexible API management solution that extends {{site.base_gateway}}, the fastest, most adopted API gateway. 
It adds enterprise plugins, a developer portal, analytics, advanced security features, GUI's, and 24/7 support. 
It is the only solution that helps you accelerate your cloud journey by managing, securing, and monitoring connections between applications across hybrid and multi-cloud architectures, to help you scale faster and boost developer productivity.

## Enterprise Plugins

Kong Enterprise offers access to 400+ out-of-box enterprise and community plugins. 
It offers exclusive versions of OSS plugins like the [Rate-Limiting Advanced plugin](/hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced/) with added functionality such as the use of consumer groups, and database specific strategy. 

> Kong Enterprise also natively supports gRPC and REST, WebSockets and integrates with Apollo GraphQL server and Apache Kafka services. These plugins can be leveraged to provide advanced connectivity features and solutions to {{site.base_gateway}} such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kong Enterprise also natively supports gRPC and REST, WebSockets, and integrates with Apollo GraphQL server and Apache Kafka services. These plugins can be leveraged to provide advanced connectivity features and solutions to {{site.base_gateway}} such as:
```

* [Event gateways with Kafka](/hub/kong-inc/kafka-upstream/)
* [GraphQL](/hub/kong-inc/graphql-proxy-cache-advanced/)
* [Mocking](/hub/kong-inc/mocking/)
* [Advanced data transformation](/hub/kong-inc/jq/)
* [OPA Policy driven traffic management](/hub/kong-inc/opa/)
* [API product tiers](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api/consumer-groups/reference/)

[Get started with plugins &rarr;](/hub/)

## Dev Portal

The Dev Portal provides a single source of truth for all developers to locate, access and consume APIs, similar to a traditional API catalog. 
Dev Portal streamlines developer onboarding by offering a self-service developer experience to discover, register, and consume published services from {{site.base_gateway}}.
This customizable experience can be used to match your own unique branding and highlights the documentation and interactive API specifications of your services.
In addition, you can secure your APIs with a variety of authorization providers by enabling application registration.

[Learn more about Dev Portal &rarr;](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/dev-portal/)

## Monitoring and analytics

> The Vitals platform provides deep insights into services, routes, and application usage data.You can view the health of your API products with custom reports and contextual dashboards, and you can enhance the native monitoring and analytics capabilities with {{site.base_gateway}} plugins that enable streaming monitoring metrics to third-party analytics providers, such as [Datadog](/hub/kong-inc/datadog/) and [Prometheus](/hub/kong-inc/prometheus/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Vitals platform provides deep insights into services, routes, and application usage data. You can view the health of your API products with custom reports and contextual dashboards, and you can enhance the native monitoring and analytics capabilities with {{site.base_gateway}} plugins that enable streaming monitoring metrics to third-party analytics providers, such as [Datadog](/hub/kong-inc/datadog/) and [Prometheus](/hub/kong-inc/prometheus/).
```

{{site.base_gateway}} allows you to store sensitive data fields, such as consumer secrets, in an encrypted format within the database.
This provides encryption-at-rest security controls in a {{site.base_gateway}} cluster.

[Set up keyring and data encryption &rarr;](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/db-encryption/)

## Audit logging

{{site.base_gateway}} provides granular logging of the Admin API. You can keep detailed track of changes made to the
cluster configuration throughout its lifetime, for compliance efforts and for
providing valuable data points during forensic investigations. Generated audit
log trails are [workspace](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api/workspaces/reference) and [RBAC](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api/rbac/reference)-aware,
providing {{site.base_gateway}} operators a deep and wide look into changes happening within
the cluster.

[Get started with audit logging &rarr;](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/audit-log/)

## FIPS support

Kong Enterprise features a self-managed FIPS 140-2 gateway package, making it ideal for highly regulated industries with strict compliance and security considerations. 

> FIPS compliance with this standard is typically required for working with U.S. federal government agencies and their contractors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compliance with this standard is typically required for working with U.S. federal government agencies and their contractors.
```
Adding FIPS to the start of the sentence is redundant. "This standard" = FIPS.

[Learn more about FIPS support &rarr;](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/fips-support/)

## Workspaces

Workspaces provide a way to segment or group {{site.base_gateway}} entities. Entities in a workspace are isolated from those in other workspaces.

> {{site.ce_product_name}} is limited to one workspaces. With Kong Enterprise, you can leverage multiple workspaces to allow developers to easily transition between projects, and to separate services and routes belonging to different upstreams. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{site.ce_product_name}} is limited to one workspace. With Kong Enterprise, you can leverage multiple workspaces to allow developers to easily transition between projects, and to separate services and routes belonging to different upstreams. 
```

content_type: explanation
---

> Kong Enterprise is the scalable, secure, and flexible API management solution that extends Kong Gateway, the fastest, most adopted API gateway, with enterprise plugins, developer portal, analytics, advanced security features, GUI's, and 24/7 support. It is the only solution that helps you accelerate your cloud journey by managing, securing, and monitoring connections between applications across hybrid and multi-cloud architectures, to help you scale faster and boost developer productivity. 

Reviewer: Should we add a variable for "Kong Enterprise"? maybe something like `ee_package` or `ee_product`.

Author: Yes. I'd rather do it in a separate PR.

> Kong Enterprise is the scalable, secure, and flexible API management solution that extends Kong Gateway, the fastest, most adopted API gateway, with enterprise plugins, developer portal, analytics, advanced security features, GUI's, and 24/7 support. It is the only solution that helps you accelerate your cloud journey by managing, securing, and monitoring connections between applications across hybrid and multi-cloud architectures, to help you scale faster and boost developer productivity. 

Reviewer: Vale rule:
> Use 'Dev Portal' instead of 'developer portal'.

This rule isn't working out super well. We call it "Dev Portal", but it _is_ a developer portal, lowercase - there will be instances where we need to use that.

Author: removed the rule.

> Kong Enterprise is the scalable, secure, and flexible API management solution that extends Kong Gateway, the fastest, most adopted API gateway, with enterprise plugins, developer portal, analytics, advanced security features, GUI's, and 24/7 support. It is the only solution that helps you accelerate your cloud journey by managing, securing, and monitoring connections between applications across hybrid and multi-cloud architectures, to help you scale faster and boost developer productivity. 

Reviewer: This first sentence is a run-on. Suggest splitting:

```suggestion
> Kong Enterprise is the scalable, secure, and flexible API management solution that extends Kong Gateway, the fastest, most adopted API gateway. 
It adds enterprise plugins, a developer portal, analytics, advanced security features, GUI's, and 24/7 support. 
It is the only solution that helps you accelerate your cloud journey by managing, securing, and monitoring connections between applications across hybrid and multi-cloud architectures, to help you scale faster and boost developer productivity. 
```

> Kong Enterprise is the scalable, secure, and flexible API management solution that extends Kong Gateway, the fastest, most adopted API gateway, with enterprise plugins, developer portal, analytics, advanced security features, GUI's, and 24/7 support. It is the only solution that helps you accelerate your cloud journey by managing, securing, and monitoring connections between applications across hybrid and multi-cloud architectures, to help you scale faster and boost developer productivity. 

Reviewer: There's a lot of marketing-speak here. 
"fastest, most adopted API gateway." - can we guarantee that? Is that our official promise?  
"It is the only solution that helps you accelerate...etc" - is it the only solution? Do we know that?

> Kong Enterprise is the scalable, secure, and flexible API management solution that extends Kong Gateway, the fastest, most adopted API gateway, with enterprise plugins, developer portal, analytics, advanced security features, GUI's, and 24/7 support. It is the only solution that helps you accelerate your cloud journey by managing, securing, and monitoring connections between applications across hybrid and multi-cloud architectures, to help you scale faster and boost developer productivity. 

Author: removed the rule

## Enterprise Plugins

> {{site.base_gateway}} offers access to 400+ out-of-box enterprise and community plugins. {{site.base_gateway}} Enterprise offers exclusive versions of OSS plugins like the [Rate-Limiting Advanced plugin](hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced/) with added functionality such as the use of consumer groups, and database specific strategy. {{site.base_gateway}} Enterprise natively support gRPC and REST, WebSockets and integrate with Apollo GraphQL server and Apache Kafka services. These plugins can be leveraged to provide advanced connectivity features and solutions to {{site.base_gateway}} such as:

Reviewer: Where is this 400 number coming from? We can only vouch for about 40-60 on our doc site; if we're telling them there's hundreds, we need to indicate how/where to find them, or how to ask for them.

> {{site.base_gateway}} offers access to 400+ out-of-box enterprise and community plugins. {{site.base_gateway}} Enterprise offers exclusive versions of OSS plugins like the [Rate-Limiting Advanced plugin](hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced/) with added functionality such as the use of consumer groups, and database specific strategy. {{site.base_gateway}} Enterprise natively support gRPC and REST, WebSockets and integrate with Apollo GraphQL server and Apache Kafka services. These plugins can be leveraged to provide advanced connectivity features and solutions to {{site.base_gateway}} such as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kong Enterprise offers access to 400+ out-of-box enterprise and community plugins. 
It offers exclusive versions of OSS plugins like the [Rate Limiting Advanced plugin](hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced/) with added functionality such as the use of consumer groups, and database specific strategy. 
Kong Enterprise also natively supports gRPC and REST, WebSockets, and integrates with Apollo GraphQL server and Apache Kafka services. These plugins can be leveraged to provide advanced connectivity features and solutions to {{site.base_gateway}} such as:
```
Kong Enterprise is the product name, not Kong Gateway Enterprise.

> {{site.base_gateway}} offers access to 400+ out-of-box enterprise and community plugins. {{site.base_gateway}} Enterprise offers exclusive versions of OSS plugins like the [Rate-Limiting Advanced plugin](hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced/) with added functionality such as the use of consumer groups, and database specific strategy. {{site.base_gateway}} Enterprise natively support gRPC and REST, WebSockets and integrate with Apollo GraphQL server and Apache Kafka services. These plugins can be leveraged to provide advanced connectivity features and solutions to {{site.base_gateway}} such as:

Reviewer 2: The Rate Limiting plugin link is a 404. Not sure why because the URL looks correct... When I click on it, it takes me to "/gateway/latest/kong-enterprise/hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced/"

> {{site.base_gateway}} offers access to 400+ out-of-box enterprise and community plugins. {{site.base_gateway}} Enterprise offers exclusive versions of OSS plugins like the [Rate-Limiting Advanced plugin](hub/kong-inc/rate-limiting-advanced/) with added functionality such as the use of consumer groups, and database specific strategy. {{site.base_gateway}} Enterprise natively support gRPC and REST, WebSockets and integrate with Apollo GraphQL server and Apache Kafka services. These plugins can be leveraged to provide advanced connectivity features and solutions to {{site.base_gateway}} such as:

Reviewer: It's missing the leading / at the start of the link.

* [Event gateways with Kafka](/hub/kong-inc/kafka-upstream/)
* [GraphQL](/hub/kong-inc/graphql-proxy-cache-advanced/)
* [Mocking](/hub/kong-inc/mocking/)
* [Advanced data transformation](/hub/kong-inc/jq/)
* [OPA Policy driven traffic management](/hub/kong-inc/opa/)

> * [API product tiers](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api/consumer-groups/reference/#main)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [API product tiers](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api/consumer-groups/reference/)
```

> [Get started plugins &rarr;](/hub/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Get started with plugins &rarr;](/hub/)
```

## Dev Portal

> The Dev Portal provides a single source of truth for all developers to locate, access and consume APIs, similar to a traditional API Catalogue. [Dev Portal](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/dev-portal/) streamlines developer onboarding by offering a self-service developer experience to discover, register, and consume published services from the Service Hub catalog. This customizable experience can be used to match your own unique branding and highlights the documentation and interactive API specifications of your services. Enable application registration to automatically secure your APIs with a variety of authorization providers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Dev Portal provides a single source of truth for all developers to locate, access and consume APIs, similar to a traditional API catalog. 
[Dev Portal](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/dev-portal/) streamlines developer onboarding by offering a self-service developer experience to discover, register, and consume published services from {{site.base_gateway}}.
This customizable experience can be used to match your own unique branding and highlights the documentation and interactive API specifications of your services. 
You can also enable application registration to automatically secure your APIs with a variety of authorization providers.
```
Service Hub is a Konnect app, it's not available on-prem.

> The Dev Portal provides a single source of truth for all developers to locate, access and consume APIs, similar to a traditional API Catalogue. [Dev Portal](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/dev-portal/) streamlines developer onboarding by offering a self-service developer experience to discover, register, and consume published services from the Service Hub catalog. This customizable experience can be used to match your own unique branding and highlights the documentation and interactive API specifications of your services. Enable application registration to automatically secure your APIs with a variety of authorization providers.

Reviewer 2: Here (and in the other sections), I think you can remove the links to the overview page for the feature (ex. Dev Portal overview) in the paragraph and just leave the "Learn more about...." link at the bottom. Since they both link to the same page.

> The Dev Portal provides a single source of truth for all developers to locate, access and consume APIs, similar to a traditional API Catalogue. [Dev Portal](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/dev-portal/) streamlines developer onboarding by offering a self-service developer experience to discover, register, and consume published services from the Service Hub catalog. This customizable experience can be used to match your own unique branding and highlights the documentation and interactive API specifications of your services. Enable application registration to automatically secure your APIs with a variety of authorization providers.

Author: done

[Learn more about Dev Portal &rarr;](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/dev-portal/)

## Monitoring and analytics

> The [Analytics](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/analytics/) platform gives you deep insights into services, routes, and application usage data. You can keep your finger on the pulse of the health of your API products with custom reports and contextual dashboards, and you can enhance the native monitoring and analytics capabilities with {{site.base_gateway}} plugins that enable streaming monitoring metrics to third-party analytics providers, such as [Datadog](/hub/kong-inc/datadog/) and [Prometheus](/hub/kong-inc/prometheus/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [Analytics](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/analytics/) platform gives you deep insights into service, route, and application usage data. 
You can keep your finger on the pulse of the health of your API products with custom reports and contextual dashboards, and you can enhance the native monitoring and analytics capabilities with {{site.base_gateway}} plugins that enable streaming monitoring metrics to third-party analytics providers, such as [Datadog](/hub/kong-inc/datadog/) and [Prometheus](/hub/kong-inc/prometheus/).
```

> [Start monitoring with Vitals &rarr;](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/analytics/)

Reviewer: Are we still calling it Vitals on-prem, or is it analytics here too?

## Role-based access control (RBAC)

> Kong Enterprise allows the use of built-in RBAC so you can streamline developer onboarding, and create apply fine-grained security and traffic policies using the Admin API, Kong Manager, and the CLI.
> You can configure {{site.base_gateway}} users, roles, and permissions with role-based access control (RBAC), either through the [Admin API](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api/rbac/reference/) or with [Kong Manager](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-manager/auth/rbac).

Reviewer: These two sentences say the same thing in slightly different ways. 
```suggestion
Kong Enterprise lets you configure users, roles, and permissions with built-in role-based access control (RBAC). With RBAC, you can streamline developer onboarding, and create apply fine-grained security and traffic policies using the [Admin API](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api/rbac/reference/), [Kong Manager](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-manager/auth/rbac), and the CLI.
```
I don't think the CLI is correct. The kong CLI doesn't have any ability to manage RBAC.
https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/reference/cli/
Neither does the Dev Portal one:
https://docs.konghq.com/gateway/latest/kong-enterprise/dev-portal/cli/

So unless there's a CLI we don't know about...

[Manage teams with RBAC &rarr;](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-manager/auth/rbac)

## Secrets management

> {{site.base_gateway}} Enterprise offers out of the box secrets management with the following backends: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kong Enterprise offers out of the box secrets management with the following backends: 
```

* [Amazon Web Services](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/secrets-management/backends/aws-sm/)
* [Google Cloud Platform](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/secrets-management/backends/gcp-sm/)
* [Hashicorp Vault](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/secrets-management/backends/hashicorp-vault/)

> Configuration is simple, {{site.base_gateway}} consumes your key for the backend provider, authenticates with the backend provider, and starts using the backend to centrally manage and store application secrets, sensitive data, passwords, keys, certifications, tokens, and other items.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{site.base_gateway}} consumes your key for the backend provider, authenticates with the backend provider, and starts using the backend to centrally manage and store application secrets, sensitive data, passwords, keys, certifications, tokens, and other items.
```
Removing "configuration is simple" because 1, this sentence doesn't talk about configuration, and 2, not great language to use in docs.

[Secure your application secrets &rarr;](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/secrets-management/)

## Keyring and data encryption

Keyring and data encryption functionality provides transparent, symmetric encryption of sensitive data fields at rest. When enabled, encryption and decryption of data is done by {{site.base_gateway}} immediately before writing, or immediately after reading from the database. Responses generated by the Admin API containing sensitive fields continue to show data as plaintext, and runtime elements of {{site.base_gateway}} (such as plugins) that require access to sensitive fields do so transparently, without requiring additional configuration.

{{site.base_gateway}} allows you to store sensitive data fields, such as consumer secrets, in an encrypted format within the database.
This provides encryption-at-rest security controls in a {{site.base_gateway}} cluster.

[Set up keyring and data encryption &rarr;](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/db-encryption/)

## Audit logging

{{site.base_gateway}} provides granular logging of the Admin API. You can keep detailed track of changes made to the

> cluster configuration throughout its lifetime, for compliance efforts and to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cluster configuration throughout its lifetime, for compliance efforts and for
```

providing valuable data points during forensic investigations. Generated audit
log trails are [workspace](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api/workspaces/reference) and [RBAC](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/admin-api/rbac/reference)-aware,
providing {{site.base_gateway}} operators a deep and wide look into changes happening within
the cluster.

[Get started with audit logging &rarr;](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/audit-log/)

## FIPS support

> Kong Enterprise is self-managed and features a FIPS 140-2 compliant gateway, making it ideal for highly regulated industries with strict compliance and security considerations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kong Enterprise features a self-managed FIPS 140-2 gateway package, making it ideal for highly regulated industries with strict compliance and security considerations. 
```
We can't say that it's FIPS compliant. It hasn't been audited/approved for that.

> Compliance is required for working with U.S. federal government agencies and their contractors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compliance with this standard is typically required for working with U.S. federal government agencies and their contractors.
```
"Typically" is accurate in this case.

> Compliance is required for working with U.S. federal government agencies and their contractors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
FIPS compliance is required for working with U.S. federal government agencies and their contractors.
```

[Learn more about FIPS support &rarr;](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/fips-support/)

## Workspaces

[Workspaces](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/workspaces/) provide a way to segment or group {{site.base_gateway}} entities. Entities in a workspace are isolated from those in other workspaces.

> Kong OSS limits workspaces to one, with Enterprise you can leverage multiple workspaces to allow developers to easily transition between different projects, and to separate different services and routes belonging to different upstreams. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{{site.ce_product_name}} limits workspaces to one. With Kong Enterprise, you can leverage multiple workspaces to allow developers to easily transition between projects, and to separate services and routes belonging to different upstreams. 
```

> Kong OSS limits workspaces to one, with Enterprise you can leverage multiple workspaces to allow developers to easily transition between different projects, and to separate different services and routes belonging to different upstreams. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kong OSS is limited to one workspace. With Enterprise, you can leverage multiple workspaces to allow developers to easily transition between different projects, and to separate different services and routes belonging to different upstreams. 
```

[Learn more about workspaces &rarr;](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-manager/workspaces/)

## Dynamic plugin ordering

[Dynamic plugin ordering](/gateway/{{page.kong_version}}/kong-enterprise/plugin-ordering/) allows you to override the priority for any {{site.base_gateway}} plugin using each plugin's `ordering` field. 

> This determines plugin ordering during the `access` phase,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This determines plugin ordering during the `access` phase
```
